D'Alessandro.
They made you captain?
Hello, Johnson.
I see you're back in cuffs,
where you belong.
How's that house you bought
in the Jersey Shore
with all that pat
that I used to pay you?
Old dogs, new tricks.
$20,000 down.
The Reverend has asked me
to oversee the HARYOU program.
And as she will be assuming
a very public position,
we'll all have to keep
on the straight and narrow,
now, won't we?
I would love for you
to come with me to Africa
after my trip to Mecca.
I killed a man.
It was self-defense.
There was a hit out on me.
My stepmother.
If he wants me to secure Harlem
and Bumpy Johnson,
I'm gonna need his influence
over the other bosses.
Mr. Gigante would be willing
to give you his support
under one condition--
that you protect his daughter.
You find her, keep her safe,
Chin will do what you ask.
Joe Colombo, a friend
of your father's.
- What do you want from me?
- I wanna help you.
By kidnapping me?
I'm proposing
a short-term bridge loan.
Investing in your venture
was a terrible mistake.
Venture?
Call it what it is, Judge.
It was a heroin deal.
You can't run Harlem alone, Ellsworth.
You need an alliance.
Set a meet with Jose Battle.
But he's got men.
He's got guns.
He can help us change
the balance of power.
You want to be partners
with me?
There's gonna be a war
in Harlem.
The only war I'm interested
in fighting
is the one to take back
my country, Cuba.
We're both fighting to take
back our homelands.
Mine is Harlem.
Together, we'll be so strong
the Italians
won't even dare start a war.
♪ Ooh ♪
♪ Oh, oh, oh ♪
♪ Ella es fuego a morir♪
♪ Una en un millón,
lo sabe y te lo hará sentir♪
♪ Peligrosa y también sutil♪
♪ Un descuido, y te enamora,
te hará sufrir♪
El dinero llama al dinero.
Money brings more money.
As my Geechee ancestors
used to say,
"Fire don't crack a full pot."
Here's to keeping our pot full.
Salud.
I'm going to speak
for all us in saying
it's been well worth the risk.
Yes, yes.
Exceeding expectations.
I told you, gentlemen,
I wouldn't steer you wrong.
These go down awfully easy.
Cuba Libres.
That's rum,
Coca-Cola, and lime--
the drink of Cuba's independence
since 19--
Enough.
Let's get the business
out of the way.
Jesus, Bumpy, how much
are we talking about here?
Nine-fifty.
Well, that's substantially
more than last week.
Why is that man
holding a gun?
I told you I don't want
to be around any guns.
Let's just finish
what we started.
Then you can go back upstairs
and enjoy the party, alright?
Fine.
But if I ever see one more gun,
you can count me out.
Let me tell you something.
That fucking judge
better watch
the way he fucking
look at me, man.
I take my blade, I cut him
across his big, fat
motherfucking ass.
See how he likes sitting on the
fucking bench after that shit.
He's difficult but manageable.
I can handle him.
You handle everything.
I like the way you work.
Combining our numbers was a nice
economy of scale, wasn't it?
I'm talking about us as men,
as people defending
their land against invaders.
I need a favor from you.
Anything serious?
I just need you
to kill somebody.
That's my sister, Riza.
Her husband, Santo.
Their beautiful girls,
Savina and Severa, my nieces.
You can't tell
from this photo,
but my sister is pregnant
with her third child.
It's a beautiful family.
Sometime after this photo
was taken--
I don't know, maybe
three weeks or something--
their home was raided
by Fidel's men.
My sister and my nieces
were tied together with wire
and taken out
to behind the house.
My brother-in-law was tied
to a chair, his eyes held open
as they executed his family,
my family by firing squad.
I'm sorry, Jose.
The man responsible
for this is that guy.
Madera. Juan Madera.
One of Castro's most
trusted lieutenants.
This garbage lied to me
about which side he was on
and gave Fidel's men
the location of my family.
Snitch.
This Madera is here,
in New York City.
My men are looking for him
in Spanish Harlem,
but I think he might be hiding
in your neighborhood.
We'll find him.
And kill him.
Before he escapes
back to Cuba.
Bumpy, when I am a partner,
your problems become mine,
and I hope that mine
become yours.
Consider it done.
♪ Yeah ♪
♪ Change ♪
♪ Open up my window again ♪
♪ Open up
my window again ♪
♪ I can hear death
callin' my name ♪
♪ I can hear
death callin' again ♪
♪ I swear to God,
things ain't gon' change ♪
♪ I swear to God, things
ain't gon' change ♪
♪ I keep a revolver
with your name ♪
♪ I keep
a revolver with your name ♪
♪ Just in case ♪
♪ Lay on my back
watchin' the ceilin' fan ♪
♪ I had a dream to
touch a kilo gram ♪
♪ Still at odds
with the Irish mob ♪
♪ Rolls-Royce down
Malcolm X Boulevard ♪
♪ Lord, these-- really
out here preyin' on me ♪
♪ Got the .40 on me
and his hand on me ♪
♪ Snow-white mink
like I'm Dutch Schultz ♪
♪ Run the books and let me
show you how the numbers look ♪
♪ You can't be lucky
like you Luciano ♪
♪ The kilos slammin'
like they new pianos ♪
♪ And Fat Boy got the big body ♪
♪ Coast-to-coast,
I could shoot product ♪
♪ Open up my window again ♪
♪ Open up
my window again ♪
♪ I can hear death
callin' my name ♪
♪ I can hear
death callin' again ♪
♪ I swear to God,
things ain't gon' change ♪
♪ I swear to God, things
ain't gon' change ♪
♪ I keep a revolver
with your name ♪
♪ I keep
a revolver with your name ♪
♪ Just in case ♪
Name?
Malik El-Shabazz.
I am also known
as Malcolm X.
- Malcolm X from America?
- Yes, sir.
Uh, you'll find a letter signed
by Dr. Mahmoud Shawarbi
of the United Nations attesting
to the fact I am a Muslim.
This is not
an official document.
Uh, Dr. Shawarbi assured me it
would, uh, suffice as such.
Only the Maghama Sharia
can determine your status
as a convert to Islam, and you
may not enter Mecca without it.
Sir, with all due respect,
you know who I am.
I have traveled very far to be
here, made many sacrifices.
The Saudi ambassador himself
is the one who told me
to have my visa
signed by Dr. Shawarbi.
Then the Saudi ambassador
should have also informed you
any attempt to enter
the Hajj as a non-Muslim
is considered a crime
under Saudi law.
Detain him.
Come on.
"Executive Director
Mayme Johnson
stole the spotlight
last Saturday
at the organization's meeting
at Benjamin Franklin High School
when in her remarks preceding
Adam Clayton Powell,"
"she announced
a national voter hotline
to help black voters find
the right polling stations.
Johnson's brilliant idea
was cheered
by over 600 Harlemites
crammed in the gymnasium."
Well, what can I say?
I learned from the best.
Mm, and that's the only thing
you can say.
You know, a smart master knows
that the better
his student shines,
the better he shines.
Well, good, because she's about
about to be a whole lot shinier.
Tell him.
I just got off the phone
with Hamilton Tiegs, chairman
of the National Newspaper
Publishers Association,
and they have agreed
starting Wednesday
to run "Get Out the Vote" ads
free of charge.
Really?
Well, that is outstanding.
Just make sure they
don't stick it in the back
next to Hope's Horoscopes
and "used couch for sale."
Mm-hmm?
Someone from the District
Attorney's office is here.
Oh, Lord have mercy.
What the hell do they want?
Let him in.
Is it a Christmas card
come early?
Mayme Johnson,
you have been deposed
by the United States Attorney
for the Southern District
of New York.
What?
- Morgenthau?
- Morgenthau's in Washington.
This is from Assistant District
Attorney Jonathan Pike.
Oh, a real hard-ass,
from what I hear.
He wants to meet at my apartment
this afternoon.
House call?
Oh. That's not good.
Show this picture
to all of your runners.
His name is Juan Madera.
Put the word out on the street.
I wanna find him.
What this guy do?
Something horrible in Cuba.
Why we gotta do
Battle's dirty work for him?
He helped us with Joe Colombo.
And when the next duji shipment
comes in,
we'll need him for men,
money, and guns,
so if we gotta do some bullshit
favor, then we do it.
Okay. Okay.
So we'll check out
this Madera cat.
I want you to find
this motherfucker
and you kill him.
Can I please get
a glass of water?
Do you speak English?
Floor.
Ceiling.
- Ceiling.
- Mm-hmm.
Muhammad Ali. Clay?
Ali?
Muhammad Ali?
Muhammad Ali!
No, no, not me. Not me.
But I know him.
It looks like you do too.
- Muhammad Ali?
- No.
Yeah. Name Muhammad Ali.
Muhammad Ali.
But why would the
assistant district attorney
wanna meet with me?
I mean, other than something
having to do with you.
The feds got no case
against me right now.
Oh, it just feels so ominous.
That's what they want it to feel
like. Don't worry about it.
I just don't want this
to jeopardize
everything I'm building
right now.
This is what happens
when your profile gets raised.
You know that.
I guess so.
In fact, it's probably Powell
they wanna talk to you about.
Those Dixiecrats
are looking for dirt
to derail
his voting rights bill.
Look, go talk to this guy Pike.
No big deal.
You've done nothing wrong
and you got nothing to hide.
Thank you.
I--I know it's not much,
but it'll do, you know, for now.
How long are you
keeping me here for?
Until I'm certain
that you're safe.
I can keep myself safe.
Someone tried to
have you killed, Stella.
They may try it again.
And I made a promise to your
pops that I'd look after you.
How do you know he wasn't
the one who tried to whack me?
Come on, what are
you talking about?
He's the one asking me
to protect you.
Listen.
I'll get you some
new furniture, wallpaper,
spruce the place up, and...
And then you-- you
expect me to just, what,
sit here all day long?
What would you like to do?
If I'm staying here,
I'm going back to school.
And I'm gonna get a job.
School can wait, but I think
I might have a job for you.
What's that?
Working for me.
Come on.
As-salamu alaykum, Malcolm.
It is a great honor
to meet you.
Wa-alaykum-Salaam.
And you are?
Dr. Omar Azzam.
Welcome to Mecca.
A prison cell is not
my idea of a welcome.
No, of course not.
I am so sorry.
I am here to help you with that.
Your arrival here in Mecca
has caused quite a stir
in the international press.
The Royal Family itself asked me
to help petition the Maghama
Sharia on your behalf.
Well, that's just fine.
Thank you.
See? Allah answers our prayers,
especially in Mecca.
Thank you, Dr. Azzam.
Perhaps you'd be so kind
to give me a lift to my hotel.
I'm sorry.
You cannot go there.
Why not?
The Sharia court will
not be able to hear your case
for several days yet.
I see.
My friend, forgive me
for not being clear.
You do not have to stay here.
You can leave,
but with a chaperone.
And who might that be?
I invite you to come stay
with my family in my home.
- In your home?
- Yes.
I've never been invited
to a white man's home before.
Praise Allah. Now you have.
Of course,
if you'd rather stay here...
Salaam alaykum.
- Goodbye, Muhammad Ali.
Dr. Azzam, please lead the way.
Mr. Pike,
why are we here?
You're the new director
of HARYOU, are you not?
Yes.
HARYOU has accepted
numerous donations
from Ellsworth Johnson,
your husband.
The Johnsons
are entitled to give
to whichever charities
they wish.
Including a recent donation...
...of $50,000 in cash.
It's a very sizable donation.
Where did that money come from?
Well, my husband's a legitimate
businessman, Mr. Pike.
Rumor has it
your husband's partnered
with a Cuban criminal
named Jose Battle.
I know nothing about that.
Well, I do.
And I think that's dirty money.
Do you have proof?
Well, I find it strange
that Reverend Powell's content
to have the wife
of a convicted felon
so close to such
an important program.
I resent that.
She's doing
great work for us.
That may be.
But if I can prove
any illegality
associated with her
or her husband,
the Justice Department will
shut your whole program down.
Look, this is
an easy gig here.
Phone rings, answer it.
Take a message, open the mail,
order in lunch.
We both know you can't keep me
prisoner here forever.
I'll just walk right out of here
the second I get a chance.
You need my protection, Stella.
It's what your father wants.
What about what I want?
My father's been trying
to control me my whole life.
Even now, he's in jail and
he's still trying to control me.
He wants you alive.
Until we are 100% sure
that none of these other dons
wants to do you harm,
it's my job to keep you safe.
Okay?
♪ Sees so many guys♪
♪ Speaks so low and mild♪
♪ One day she will marry,
settle down after a while♪
♪ Betsy don't allow me♪
Fine.
But I wanna get paid
for this job,
and I don't want you
in my face 24 hours a day.
I'll tell you what.
Long as you let me know
where you're gonna be
and I can keep my men with you,
that's fine.
We'll discuss salary
over dinner.
Dinner?
Jesus, you got balls on you.
Why? You don't eat?
♪ Let her steal his heart away♪
♪ She'll break it just for fun♪
You sure Pinky spotted
him going into this diner?
Who the hell knows, man?
You know Pinky's blind
in one eye, right?
Well, that just
probably means
the other eye probably
got stronger.
What are you
talking about?
When one eye goes dead,
the other eye gets,
like, super vision.
Where the fuck you
get this shit from, man?
Science.
Oh, shit. Is that him?
It sure look like it.
Wow. I guess you were right
about Pinky's one eye.
You want the snubnose?
Too loud for around here
right now.
You can hear a snubnose
three blocks away.
- Shit. That's him?
- Yeah, that's him.
You want the .22?
- Junie's .22?
- Yeah.
Nah, Junie's .22
will jam up.
I got that Luger
in the glove compartment.
Okay.
Hold on, hold on. Witnesses.
I'ma just push up to the end of
the block past all these kids.
Shit.
Alright, he's moving.
- I'm jumping.
- You're jumping?
I'm going, I'm going!
Where you going? Wait, wait!
Shit!
Hey.
What the fuck?
You know, most people
here in Mecca
have never met
a Muslim from America.
- That includes you?
- I'm afraid so.
I'm familiar
with many of your speeches.
I'm particularly
fond of that line
"We didn't land
on Plymouth Rock.
The rock landed on us."
I'm glad it amused you.
But tell me,
is my understanding correct
that you wish to start
your own country
within the United States
of just Black Muslims?
That's one solution. Yes.
See, the race problem in America
is not going to fix itself.
Separation is
a viable alternative.
Why is that?
We were taught to speak
the white man's tongue,
to worship the white God,
to accept the white man
as superior.
To whites such as yourself
Negroes are nothing
but ex-slaves trying to
enter the slave master's house
where they're
not wanted anyway.
I see.
Are there no good whites
in your country?
There are some white liberals
who are political hypocrites.
They use the Negroes
as bargaining chips
to get bills passed
so their power will increase.
It seems to me, Mr. X,
that you are a racist
in your own fashion,
judging only
by exterior appearances.
Margaret says, "They gave me
a room with a nice view
and a girl
who's from Charlottesville.
We're friends already."
Mm, so much for
missing her two moms.
Mm.
Ow, goddamn it!
Put some pressure on it.
I am just not myself right now.
What's wrong?
I'll get you a Band-aid.
Hey.
What happened?
Oh, nothing.
I-- I cut my finger.
Let me see.
Is that better?
I spoke with Assistant
District Attorney Pike today.
It has nothing to do
with Powell.
Go on.
He knows about your association
with Jose Battle.
He's trying
to push me out of HARYOU.
Threatened to shut down
the entire program.
He can't do that.
You've done nothing wrong.
You're right. I haven't.
But you have.
He can't touch you.
He doesn't have to.
I am jeopardizing the whole
program because of you.
Powell needs you.
He'll fight for you, alright?
I mean, maybe now.
But what happens when you
start selling duji again?
The feds will be all over you.
- What then?
- I can deal with them.
You were in jail for 11 years
because of that drug.
What do you want from me?
I gotta do what I gotta do to
stay alive and to stay strong.
And if that gets in your way,
then there's nothing
I can do about it.
Let me ask you this.
Won't the new civil rights laws
change anything in America?
They'll afford
the Negro the right
to use a white man's toilet,
nothing more than that.
The white men in your country
no longer
physically enslave you.
The shackles are removed
from your body,
but remain in the heart.
Very true.
One of the beautiful things
about the Hajj
is that Allah delivers us
from all forms of bondage,
chains we can see
and those that are invisible.
Praise Allah.
But I-- I don't even know
if the court will allow me
to go on the Hajj.
That is of no importance.
You are already in Mecca.
No matter what the court says,
I believe your Hajj
has already started.
Will you join me in prayer?
I'm sorry, Dr. Azzam, but in the
black Muslim faith I practice,
whites and Blacks are not
supposed to pray together.
How would you react
if one of your people told you
that their shit wasn't
motherfuckin' loaded?
Ain't no excuse, Bump.
Y-yeah, Bump.
It ain't nothing
but a flat fuck-up.
And he saw your face?
Yeah, yeah. H-He saw us.
You boys fucked up in some sort
of Hall of Fame type shit.
Get the fuck out of my face.
Get the fuck out of my face!
Damn.
Thing is, Bump,
something's botherin' the fuck
outta me about this Madera cat.
What?
I got a real eyeball
full of this dude.
He don't feel like
no military cat to me.
No way, no how.
What makes you say that?
The way he carry himself
while he under attack.
Yeah.
Bump, I-I'm
straight with that.
Look, when he looked at me,
h-he looked at me
like he ain't never had a gun
pointed at him before.
I mean, anybody's gonna run, right?
But if you ever been in combat,
you don't run
the way this dude was runnin'.
- Hell, no.
- How is that?
Turnin' back,
lookin' over his shoulder.
Anyone knows when you getting
shot at, you never look back.
- Never look back.
Now, we fucked up for sure,
ain't no doubt.
But if Battle told you
this dude was military,
I think he's a fuckin' liar.
And I'm sorry, Bump.
Sorry.
I was looking for the placement
of our "Get out the Vote" ads
when I saw it,
called you right away.
"HARYOU Executive Director
Mayme Johnson
is sparking questions from
sources inside the organization
about her role as director,
given her husband's
suspected criminal activities.
The sources wish
to remain anonymous
for fear of retribution.
Many people worry
that personal financial gain
might be motivating."
Well, at least we got placement
for our voting rights ad.
As-salamu alaykum, Malcolm.
As-salamu alaykum.
Good news. The court will decide
your case tomorrow,
and I'm certain it
will be in your favor.
That's wonderful.
So soon you'll be on your way,
and I'll be out of yours.
Dr. Azzam.
Um...
I hope I haven't
offended you in any way.
I am grateful for your help
and your hospitality.
When I was a boy, just--
just six years old,
a group of white men snatched
my father from his home,
tied him to the railroad,
and let a train
slice him in two.
After that, my-- my mother
suffered a nervous breakdown
and was sent to an asylum.
Eventually, she didn't
even recognize me.
Dr. Azzam, I don't believe
all white people are evil.
But in my life...
I have never known kindness,
humanity or empathy
from anyone
with your skin color.
When you're on the Hajj,
you will be praying with Muslims
of all complexions.
So I'm told.
And they will treat you
as their brother, as I do.
In Islam,
there is no skin color,
just human being
and faith in God.
With all due respect, Bumpy,
I'm an idiot for even being
seen with you right now.
I understand.
I appreciate it, though.
But you and me have
always been straight.
Let's keep this short.
What'd you find?
This guy Madera, if that's
the guy you're looking for,
has a very unusual past.
How so?
He don't have one.
I can't find
his Social Security number.
I can't find a work history or
any reports of previous crimes.
What about military service?
Mnh.
I called his last employer,
read them the riot act.
They gave me
this address in Harlem.
Here's the thing.
A guy with such a recent history
and no back history
usually means one thing.
What's that?
CIA.
Thanks.
- Appreciate it.
- Mm-hmm.
♪ Wild one ♪
♪ Wild one, you're a rebel ♪
♪ And they say
you're just no good ♪
♪ Just no good ♪
♪ But they might
change their minds ♪
♪ If they only understood ♪
♪ Only understood ♪
♪ Wild one, I understand ♪
♪ I know you never had
a chance ♪
♪ Ooh, ooh, ooh ♪
♪ You're a victim
of circumstance ♪
♪ Ooh, ooh, ooh ♪
♪ Can't you see? ♪
Hi, Bumpy.
How's it going?
- It's going good.
- Yeah?
Yeah.
♪ I've given you my heart ♪
Hey, good to see you guys.
How you doin', fellas?
Bumpy Johnson.
Looking good, my friend.
Bumpy Johnson, my man.
Hey, Dixon.
Woo-hoo, Mr. Johnson!
This singer's cookin'
with gas tonight.
Enjoy your evening, brothers.
♪ And go where you're gonna ♪
♪ You're wild as can be ♪
There you are.
♪ I'm sayin'
your love's for me ♪
- Did you kill him?
- I'm working on it.
Something just
don't add up, though.
What's that?
What is it about this Madera
that you're not telling me?
I told you. He's my enemy.
Your enemy works for the CIA?
The CIA is a very large
organization with many facets.
What are you involved in?
That's not your concern.
The fuck it ain't.
I turned my back on the Italians
for you, okay?
I didn't fuckin'
ask you questions
about your motive or loyalty.
Now you wanna question mine?
You're hiding something from me.
I'll find out what it is.
I cannot trust you, then our
business partnership will end.
What is this, some kinda--
some kinda test?
Hey, man. You call it a test,
call it whatever the fuck
you want to call it, man,
but you kill this guy,
or I'll know where we stand.
♪ Hey, hey, hey ♪
♪ Oh, my wild one ♪
♪ I'm sayin' your love's
for me ♪
♪ Wild one ♪
Are you looking forward
to joining Malcolm in Africa?
I've never left Harlem before.
I've never traveled.
I'm excited to see the world.
I envy you.
I wish I could
leave sometimes.
You are doing such
important work here, Mayme.
I'm proud of you.
You read the paper.
Everything I do
is going to be tainted.
I just-- I can't
get away from it.
I don't know what to do.
Don't give up.
And don't worry about
what they say in the paper.
They don't know you.
Powell's enemies in Congress
can use me as a talking point.
I could single-handedly derail
the Voting Rights Act
all because...
Because of Bumpy.
For the first time in my life...
I feel that I resent him.
I've never felt that before.
It scares me.
That's natural.
Look, I didn't choose my father,
but I found a way to live
with the things he does...
and to love him just the same.
Thank you.
♪ Murda, murda, murda, murda ♪
♪ They say they're
comin' back tonight ♪
♪ They won't be talkin' ♪
♪ Murda, murda, murda, murda ♪
♪ Murda, murda ♪
♪ The look that's in his eyes ♪
♪ He's thinkin' something ♪
♪ He won't stop movin' around ♪
♪ He's holdin' something ♪
♪ Man, I say something
just ain't right ♪
♪ Murda, murda ♪
♪ It's always
when it's too late ♪
♪ You already
know you're fucked ♪
♪ Until now, you never used
the words you shoulda so much ♪
♪ I know you did a lot of shit ♪
♪ Certain things
you ain't proud of ♪
♪ Certain situations God won't
even help you get out of ♪
♪ Difficult for you to breathe ♪
♪ You're lookin'
strange in the mirror ♪
♪ Right at your
own reflections ♪
♪ Like you're
gettin' pale in a picture ♪
♪ Heartbeat's beating
irregular ♪
♪ Thinking 'bout your kids now,
that signal on a celly ♪
♪ Overthinkin'
what you did now ♪
♪ But in the moment,
itchy finger niggas black ♪
♪ But it's too late ♪
♪ To be thinkin' about
your kids after the fact ♪
♪ And I don't want to be
the voice in your head ♪
♪ But I assure you homey
with his niggas ♪
♪ In front of the club
waitin' for you ♪
♪ Murda, murda ♪
He's a journalist.
Who the hell are you?
I was about to ask you
the same question.
♪ I love you more and more ♪
This is a Rothschild '59.
It's an excellent year.
I don't drink.
Really?
You don't drink
or you won't drink?
What difference does it make?
I'd like to know
if you're bullshitting me.
You seem like the kind of man
who only hears what he wants,
so whatever I say,
it doesn't matter.
I can understand you
thinking that.
You understand
what I'm thinking?
Let me guess.
You hate my guts.
You blame men like me
for everything
that's gone wrong in your life.
You think I'm just
another goombah
like your father
and his friends.
You're thinking
that if I were to die suddenly,
right here at this table,
you'd feel tremendous relief,
even joy.
How'd I do?
Gotta hand it to you.
You are a mind reader.
Your father backed me
to be head of my own family.
I owe him a debt of loyalty
I could never repay.
And part of that
is protecting you.
What do you say?
Let's just try to get along.
Cin don.
♪ I love you more and more ♪
♪ Each day ♪
♪ I love ♪
"This letter is to inform you
I've resigned"?
What? A resignation letter?
Lady, are you out of your mind?
Adam, it's
the right thing to do.
Did you put her up to this?
No, I did not.
It was her decision.
But I could not agree
with it more.
Mayme...
Look, this controversy
is not worth
the damage it can do to HARYOU.
It is about Harlem's kids.
It's not about me.
You are the best thing for them.
I do not accept
this resignation.
Adam--
We are under enough
scrutiny as it is.
The Harlem
Leadership Committee
already feels we're
illegally constituted.
That's right, so the press
will look up the asshole
of anybody who takes this job.
Adam, as it is,
you're probably gonna have
to make a statement
in support of her stepping down.
Oh, not a chance in hell.
If this story continues,
it'll weaken the program.
The perception matters.
I thought you were
a fighter, Mayme.
That what we do! We fight!
"Dear Betty, being in Mecca
is opening my eyes
to so many new ways
of looking at things.
I have been met
by a Muslim brother
whose skin
is the whitest of white
and eyes the bluest of blue, and
this man regards me as brother,
because our faith
in One God Allah
has removed "white"
from his mind.
I have never before witnessed
such sincere hospitality and
practice of true brotherhood.
Perhaps someday if White America
can accept the religion of Islam
and accept the oneness of men,
it will cure the cancer
of racism in our country."
Malik El-Shabazz,
the court has approved you.
You are free
to go on your Hajj.
Praise be to Allah.
I wish you every
good fortune, Malcolm.
I know this next week will be
the most important of your life.
Dr. Azzam,
I would be honored
if you would make the pilgrimage
with me, as my guide.
There is so much
about traditional Islam
I wish to learn,
if you would teach me.
The honor will be all mine.
♪ Oh-oh, oh, oh, oh ♪
♪ Oh, oh ♪
Each hour
in the Holy Land enables
greater spiritual insights into
what is happening in America
between black and white.
As racism leads America
up the suicide path,
I do believe that the whites
of the younger generation
will see the handwriting
on the walls,
and many of them will turn
to the spiritual path of truth.
You work for the CIA?
Of course not.
Battle is the one
who was working with the CIA.
Battle said you had
his family killed.
I just voiced concern
that Jose Battle
and his greedy fuckin' family,
they stole land and money
from the Cuban people.
Castro, he took revenge
on behalf of the people.
Revenge on innocent women
and children.
War's ugly,
and their death
was decreed by the people.
You found him.
Yeah, I did.
But you did not kill him.
I don't kill for the CIA.
The question is, why do you?
This man is a murderer
and a thief,
a corrupt cop who stole
from his own people.
You're a fuckin' liar!
You didn't tell me about
the CIA. I wanna know why.
Because I didn't
wanna involve you
in certain aspects of
my business, for your own sake.
I didn't sign up
to be a hit man
for the U.S. government, alright?
That's too bad.
There's much to be gained.
Let me show you something.
This is what the CIA
can do for us.
This is where you get
your M-16s,
direct government issue?
Brand-new.
These will help us
fend off the Italians
once we get
our new shipment of dope.
And help you storm
the beaches of Cuba again?
You think it's foolish
to fight for one's homeland?
No.
You've helped me
fight for mine.
I just don't trust the CIA.
That's your choice.
But I'm sure Joe Colombo
won't have any problem
with where these guns came from.
Bumpy.
Get up. Come on.
I asked you for a favor.
Now you have to decide, man.
Are we partners or not?
I'm a man of my word,
and I keep my promises.
You better keep yours.
There's the afternoon prayer.
You may go to your room and pray
if you wish, Malcolm.
I will not be offended.
Dr. Azzam.
If I may, I'd like to stay
and pray with you.
That would be
the honor of my life.
I am so grateful to Allah
we have met.
As am I.